IMRank: Influence Maximization via Finding
Self-Consistent Ranking
Suqi Cheng, Huawei Shen, Junming Huang, Wei Chen, Xueqi Cheng
InstituteofComputingTechnology,ChineseAcademyofSciences,Beijing,China
{chengsuqi, shenhuawei, huangjunming, chenwei2012, cxq}@ict.ac.cn
ABSTRACT [Software Engineering]: Metrics—complexity measures,
performance measures
Influence maximization, fundamental for word-of-mouth
marketing and viral marketing, aims to find a set of
seed nodes maximizing influence spread on social network. GeneralTerms
Early methods mainly fall into two paradigms with certain
Algorithms, Experiments, Performance
benefits and drawbacks: (1) Greedy algorithms, selecting
seed nodes one by one, give a guaranteed accuracy relying
Keywords
ontheaccurateapproximationofinfluencespreadwithhigh
computational cost; (2) Heuristic algorithms, estimating influence maximization; social network analysis; viral mar-
influence spread using efficient heuristics, have low compu- keting; iterative method; self-consistent ranking
tational cost but unstable accuracy.
We first point out that greedy algorithms are essential- 1. INTRODUCTION
ly finding a self-consistent ranking, where nodes’ ranks
Theprosperityofonlinesocialnetworksandsocialmedia
are consistent with their ranking-based marginal influence
invokes a new wave of research on social influence analy-
spread. This insight motivates us to develop an iterative
sis [18, 8]. Finding influential individuals is an important
ranking framework, i.e., IMRank, to efficiently solve in-
problem for many applications such as expert finding,
fluence maximization problem under independent cascade
online advertising and marketing. Influence maximization
model. Starting from an initial ranking, e.g., one obtained
is identified as a fundamental problem for viral marketing
from efficient heuristic algorithm, IMRank finds a self-
in the area of online marketing. It aims to find a fixed-size
consistent ranking by reordering nodes iteratively in terms
set of seed nodes in social network to maximize their in-
of their ranking-based marginal influence spread computed
fluence spread,i.e.,theexpectednumberofactivatednodes
according to current ranking. We also prove that IMRank
triggered by the seed nodes. Ever since being formalized
definitelyconvergestoaself-consistentrankingstartingfrom
by Kempe et al. [11], influence maximization has attracted
any initial ranking. Furthermore, within this framework, a
muchresearchattentionfromvariousfields,includingsocial
last-to-first allocating strategy and a generalization of this
network analysis, data mining and marketing.
strategyareproposedtoimprovetheefficiencyofestimating
Early methods for influence maximization mainly use
ranking-basedmarginalinfluencespreadforagivenranking.
greedy framework, iteratively selecting the node with the
In this way, IMRank achieves both remarkable efficiency
largest marginal influence spread as seed node. with an
andhighaccuracybyleveragingsimultaneouslythebenefits
accurate estimation of influence spread,the greedy frame-
of greedy algorithms and heuristic algorithms. As demon-
work provides a (1 − 1/e) approximation to the optimal
strated by extensive experiments on large scale real-world
solution of influence maximization [11], guaranteed by the
social networks, IMRank always achieves high accuracy
submodularity and monotonicity properties of influence
comparable to greedy algorithms, while the computational
cost is reduced dramatically, about 10−100 times faster spreadasafunctionofseednodeset. Accordingtotheways
of estimating the influence spread, these methods roughly
than other scalable heuristics.
fall into two paradigms: greedy algorithms [11, 13, 4, 7, 5]
and heuristic algorithms [12, 3, 20, 10]. Greedy algorithms
CategoriesandSubjectDescriptors provide a (1 − 1/e − ϵ) approximation by approximating
influencespreadthroughMonteCarlosimulation. However,
F.2.2 [Analysis of Algorithms and Problem Com-
they have high computation cost, for the calculation of
plexity]: Non-numerical Algorithms and Problems; D.2.8
marginal influence spread invokes estimating the influence
spread of nodes from scratch, using time-consuming Monte
Carlosimulation. Thelatter,incontrast,resortstoestimate
Permissiontomakedigitalorhardcopiesofallorpartofthisworkforpersonalor
classroomuseisgrantedwithoutfeeprovidedthatcopiesarenotmadeordistributed the influence spread via efficient heuristic methods. The
forprofitorcommercialadvantageandthatcopiesbearthisnoticeandthefullcitation scalability of these heuristics generally outperforms the
onthefirstpage. Copyrightsforcomponentsofthisworkownedbyothersthan greedyalgorithmsbyseveralordersofmagnitude. Yet,their
ACMmustbehonored. Abstractingwithcreditispermitted. Tocopyotherwise,or high scalability is gained with the pain of unguaranteed ac-
republish,topostonserversortoredistributetolists,requirespriorspecificpermission curacyandunreliableperformanceonvariousscenarios. To
and/orafee.Requestpermissionsfrompermissions@acm.org. thebestofourknowledge,welackanefficientandaccurate
SIGIR’14,July6–11,2014,GoldCoast,Queensland,Australia.
algorithmofinfluencemaximizationforapplicationstolarge
Copyright2014ACM978-1-4503-2257-7/14/07...$15.00.
scale social networks in real world.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2600428.2609592.
475In this paper, we propose an efficient and accurate Many efforts have been made to improve the scalability
algorithm to solve influence maximization problem under of Kempe’s greedy algorithm for influence maximization.
the widely-adopted independent cascade model [11]. This “cost-effective lazy forward” (CELF) optimization strat-
algorithm is motivated by the key insight that greedy egy [13] and CELF++ [7] are proposed to reduce the
algorithms are essentially finding a self-consistent rank- times of influence spread estimation in Kempe’s greedy
ing, where nodes’ ranks are consistent with their ranking- algorithm by exploiting the submodularity property of
based marginal influence spread. We prove that such influence spread function. To reduce the number of Monte
self-consistent ranking can be obtained directly using an Carlo simulations, Chen et al. [4] proposed NewGreedy
iterative ranking framework, i.e., IMRank, proposed in this algorithm and MixedGreedy algorithm. The NewGreedy
paper. Starting from an initial ranking, e.g., one obtained algorithm reusing the results of Monte Carlo simulations in
from efficient heuristic algorithm, IMRank efficiently finds thesameiterationtocalculatemarginalinfluencespreadfor
a self-consistent ranking by reordering nodes iteratively allcandidatenodes. Yet,itincreasesthecomputationalcost
in terms of their ranking-based marginal influence spread for a single Monte Carlo simulation because the simulation
computed according to current ranking. Different from is now conducted globally rather than locally as done in
greedyalgorithmscomputingmarginalinfluencespreadfrom Kempe’s greedy algorithm. As a remedy, the MixedGreedy
scratch, IMRank conducts the computation of ranking- algorithm was developed, integrating the CELF strategy
based marginal influence spread via an efficient last-to-first into the NewGreedy algorithm. Recently, Sheldon et
allocatingstrategy. Asaresult,IMRankachievesbothhigh al. [17] proposed a sample average approximation approach
efficiency and high accuracy by leveraging simultaneously from stochastic optimization for maximizing the spread of
the benefits of greedy algorithms and heuristic algorithms. cascadesunderbudgetrestriction. Chengetal.[5]proposed
To evaluate the performance of IMRank, we conduct aStaticGreedyalgorithm,remarkablyreducingthenumber
extensive experiments on large-scale social networks with of Monte-Carlo simulations through strictly guaranteeing
hundreds of thousands of edges to millions of edges. Ex- thesubmodularityandmonotonicitypropertiesofinfluence
perimental results demonstrate that IMRank achieves high spread function. The above two works further improve the
accuracy comparable to greedy algorithms with computa- scalability of greedy algorithm effectively. These improve-
tional cost reduced dramatically. ments can speedup the original greedy algorithm in several
Our main contributions are summarized as follows: orders of magnitude, however, scalability is still a challenge
for greedy algorithms.
• We propose a novel framework IMRank, which uni- Heuristicalgorithms,incontrast,mainlyreducethecom-
fies the estimation of marginal influence spread and plexity of Kempe’s greedy algorithm through computing
the selection of seed nodes. IMRank achieves both influencespreadheuristically. DegreeDiscount, designedfor
remarkable efficiency and high accuracy by exploiting uniform independent cascade model, only computes direct
theinterplaybetweenthecalculationofranking-based influence[4]. Community-basedgreedyalgorithmconducted
marginal influence spread and the ranking of nodes. MonteCarlosimulationwithineachcommunityratherthan
• WeprovethatIMRank,startingfromanyinitialrank- on the whole network [20]. SPM/SP1M algorithms [12]
estimatedinfluencespreadaccordingtoshortestpaths,while
ing,definitelyconvergestoaself-consistentrankingin
PMIA algorithm [3] [19] used maximum influence paths.
afinitenumberofsteps. ThisindicatesthatIMRankis
SP1N algorithm employed the concept of Shapley value
efficientatsolvingtheinfluencemaximizationproblem
fromthecooperativegametheory[15]. IRIEalgorithm[10]
via finding a final self-consistent ranking.
efficiently estimated marginal influence spread through an
• We design an efficient last-to-first allocating strategy iterativemethod. Besidestheaboveheuristicsusinggreedy
toapproximatelyestimatetheranking-basedmarginal approach, Jiang et al. proposed a simulated annealing
influence spread of nodes for a given ranking, further approachwithseveralheuristics[9],andMathioudakisetal.
improving the efficiency of IMRank. suggestedtospeedupinfluencemaximizationusingasimpli-
fiedinfluencenetwork[14]. However,theseheuristicscannot
• We conduct extensive experiments on several real- give rise to guaranteed accuracy and their performance is
world networks under different types of independent unstable on different networks and diffusion models.
cascade model. Through comparing two instances Takentogether,inexistingalgorithmsforinfluencemaxi-
of IMRank with both greedy algorithm and exist- mization,theestimationofinfluencespreadandtheranking
ing state-of-the-art heuristics, we show that IMRank of nodes are studied separately. On one hand, without
always achieves comparable accuracy to the greedy leveragingtherankingofnodes,greedyalgorithmsestimate
algorithm,whileruns10−100timesfasterthanother
the influence spread of nodes from scratch, causing high
heuristics with comparable accuracy. computational cost. On the other hand, lacking a reliable
estimationofinfluencespread,heuristicalgorithmshaveno
2. RELATEDWORK guaranteed accuracy. Hence, in this paper, we improve
Influence maximization problem was first studied by thestate-of-the-artsolutionofinfluencemaximizationprob-
Domingos and Richardson from algorithmic perspective [6, lem by exploiting the interplay between marginal influence
16]. Kempe et al. then formulated it as a combinatorial spread and the ranking of nodes.
optimization problem of finding a set of seed nodes with
maximum influence spread [11]. They proved that this
3. SELF-CONSISTENTRANKING
problemisNP-hardandproposedagreedyalgorithmwhich
can guarantee a (1−1/e−ϵ) approximation ratio. Here, ϵ For influence maximization on a social network G =
is caused by the inaccurate estimation of influence spread. (V,E), influence spread function I(S) of a node set S ⊆ V
The biggest problem suffered by Kempe’s greedy algorithm is defined as the expected number of nodes in G eventually
isitslowscalability,limitingittosocialnetworkswithsmall activated by S under certain diffusion model. The function
or moderate size. I(·) is nonnegative, monotone, and submodular, satisfying
476Table 1: Notations.
Notation Description
v a node with index i
i
r the index of node with rank i with respect to a given ranking r
i
S ={v ,v ,...,v } a set of nodes
1 2 n
I(S) expected number of nodes eventually activated by set S
M(v|S) marginal influence spread by adding node v into a seed set S
M (v ) ranking-based marginal influence, short for M(v|{v ,v ,...,v })
p(v i |{v 1 ,v r 2 ,. r . i .,v i−1 }) probabilitythatv i isactivatedgiventhatacollection r1 ofn r o 2 des{v 1 ri , − v 1 2 ,...,v i−1 }arealreadyactivated
η (v ,v ) influence score that node v sends to node v with respect to a given ranking r
r i j i j
d(v ,v ) a simple path starting from v and ending at v , i.e., {w =v ,w ,...,w =v }
j i j i 1 j 2 n i
d (v ,v ) influence path, which is a simple path where v is the only node ranked higher than v on the path
r j i j i
ρ (v ,v ) probability that v is activated by v through any influence path, with respect to a given ranking r
r i j i j
l maximal length of all influence paths to account into
• Nonnegative: I(S)≥0; Theorem 1. Greedy algorithms for in(cid:13)uence maxi-
mization gives a self-consistent ranking.
• Monotone: I(S)≤I(T), if S ⊆T ⊆V;
Proof. Greedy algorithms iteratively select the node
• Submodular: I(S∪{v})−I(S)≥I(T ∪{v})−I(T),
with maximum marginal influence spread as seed node.
for all v∈V and S ⊆T ⊆V.
Witharankingrdenotingtheorderseednodesareselected,
T o b m p y h a t e x i g m s i r e m e a p e u l d r m s o y o p l m u e a r t l a g t i r o i o e g n r s i i n t o g a h f u l m a i i n r n s fl a , fl n u u i t e t e e n e n e r c c a e t e t h m i s a v p t e a r l x a y e i a m f d a se i i z r l a e a s a c t p t i s o i e p n n e r g d o c x a t n i h n m o e d b a e t e n . i o o o d n b e t t a o w in t i h e th d e w v e ≥ p n r l e e i c M − t h e e 1 a s ( } t v p v ) h e r r , e j e M f | a p o { d r r v ( o v r f i o u 1 r f i , n < | v w c { r t v i j 2 i t r . o , h 1 n · , I M · n v i · m r , 2 a ( p v , d v l r · d i j · e − i · s t ) 1 i , t o = } v h n ) r a . , M i t − t U M 1 h ( } v s e i ) ( n v s ≥ g | u r { j b v t M | m r { a v ( o n , r v v d 1 s r i , u j t v l i | , a v { r · 2 r v i · t i , r t y · · 1 y , · , , · w v v o r , f e 2 v i , c r n . i o fl − } . m . u 1 ) , } - - ≥ )
Definition 1. Marginal in(cid:13)uence spread: Given a M(v |{v ,v ,··· ,v r ri})=M ( r v i ). r1 r2 ri−1
node set S ⊆ V and a node v ∈ V, the marginal influence rj r1 r2 rj−1 r rj
spreadofv uponS isdefinedasM(v|S)=I(S∪{v})−I(S). For a given social network, however, there are multiple
self-consistent rankings besides the one obtained by greedy
However, the influence spread function is not extensive,
i.e., I(S ∪{v}) ̸= I(S)+I({v}) if v ∈/ S, since the nodes algorithms. Hence it is critical to develop effective algo-
rithms to achieve a desired self-consistent ranking which is
activated by S may overlap with the nodes activated by
either the very ranking obtained by greedy algorithms or
v. Therefore, one has to compute the marginal influence
spreadbycomputingbothI(S)andI(S∪{v})fromscratch, comparable to it from the point of influence maximization.
resultinginhugecomputationcost. Toremedythisproblem,
we further analyze the property of the set of seed nodes 4. IMRANK
obtained by greedy algorithms. Indeed, greedy algorithms In this section, we develop an efficient iterative frame-
implicitly give a ranking of nodes, where nodes are ranked work IMRank to solve the influence maximization problem
in decreasing order of their marginal influence spread. through finding a desired self-consistent ranking. IMRank
Meanwhile, their marginal influence spread are computed distinguishesitselffromgreedyalgorithmsinonekeypoint:
based on their ranks in the implicit ranking. Hence, greedy ineachiteration,IMRankefficientlyestimatesthemarginal
algorithms obtain a self-consistent ranking of nodes. influencespreadofallnodesbasedoncurrentranking,while
Before formally defining self-consistent ranking, we first greedy algorithms compute the marginal influence spread
introduce several related notations for clarity. Without loss from scratch with high computational cost.
of generality, we index all the nodes into {v ,v ,··· ,v }
1 2 n
where n = |V|. A ranking of nodes, determined by a 4.1 IMRank: iterativeframework
permutation (r 1 ,r 2 ,··· ,r n ) with r i ∈ {1,2,··· ,n} de- IMRank aims to find a self-consistent ranking from any
noting the index of node with rank i, is denoted as initial ranking. It achieves the goal by iteratively adjusting
r = {v r1 ,v r2 ,··· ,v rn }. With these notations, for conve- current ranking as follows:
nience, we now define the ranking-based marginal influence
spread of node with respect to a ranking r as M (v ) = • Computetheranking-basedmarginalinfluencespread
M(v ri |{v r1 ,v r2 ,··· ,v ri−1 }). Inaddition,forclarity
r
,Ta
ri
ble1 ofallnodesM r withrespecttothecurrentrankingr;
lists all important notations used in this paper. • Obtain a new ranking by sorting all nodes according
Definition 2. Self-consistent ranking: Arankingr is to M r .
a self-consistent ranking iff M (v ) ≥ M (v ),∀1 ≤ i <
j ≤n.
r ri r rj This iterative process is formally described in Algorithm 1.
It definitely converges to a self-consistent ranking, starting
For the set of seed nodes obtained by greedy algorithms, from any initial ranking (see Section 4.3 for proof). In-
there exists an interplay between the ranks of nodes and tuitively, IMRank iteratively promotes influential nodes to
their marginal influence spread. On one hand, these nodes toppositionsintheranking,alwaysincreasingtheinfluence
are ranked in descending order of their marginal influence spreadoftop-knodesduringtheprocessuntilitconvergesto
spread. On the other hand, the marginal influence spread a self-consistent ranking. Indeed, different initial rankings
of nodes is calculated with respect to the ranks of nodes. could make IMRank converge to different self-consistent
Indeed,thesetofseednodesobtainedbygreedyalgorithms rankings. We leave the discussion about initial ranking to
forms a self-consistent ranking. Section 4.4.
477Algorithm 1 IMRank (r) Algorithm 2 Calculate M (r)
r
1: r(0) =r 1: for i=1 to n do
2: t←0 2: M r (v ri )←1
3: repeat 3: end for
4: t←t+1 4: for i=n to 2 do
5: Calculate M with respect to the ranking r 5: for j =1 to i do
6: Generate a r n (t e ) w ranking r(t) by sorting nodes in 6: M r (v rj ) ← (M r (v rj ) + p(v r)j ,v ri )×M r (v ri )
7: un
d
t
e
i
c
l
r
r
e
(
a
t)
si
=
ng
r
o
(t
r
−
d
1
e
)
r according to M r(t) 7
8
:
: en
M
d
r
f
(
o
v
r
ri ) ← 1−p(v rj ,v ri ) ×M r (v ri )
8: output the self-consistent ranking r(t) 9: end for
10: output M
r
4.2 Calculate ranking-based marginal influ-
where p(v ,v ) is the propagation probability that
encespread rj ri
nodev directlyactivatesnodev ,knownasapriori
The core step in IMRank is the calculation of ranking- for the rj independent cascade mode r l i .
basedmarginalinfluencespread. Onestraightforwardwayis
to directly compute M (v )=M(v |{v ,v ,··· ,v }) The calculation of the ranking-based marginal influence
r ri ri r1 r2 ri−1
usingMonteCarlosimulation,asdonebygreedyalgorithms. spread M is completed after all nodes are scanned. The
r
However,prohibitivelyhighcomputationalcostmakesitim- LFA strategy is formally depicted in Algorithm 2.
practical for IMRank. To combat this problem, we propose NowweuseanexampletoillustratetheLFAstrategy. In
a Last-to-First Allocating (LFA) strategy to efficiently esti- Figure 1, v denotes the node with rank k for convenience,
k
mate M , leveraging the intrinsic interdependence between and p is the propagation probability along edge ⟨v ,v ⟩.
r i;j i j
ranking and ranking-based marginal influence spread. We Here, the ranking is simply r = {v ,v ,v ,v ,v }. Solid
1 2 3 4 5
develop the LFA strategy under the independent cascade lines represent the edges where influence could propagate,
model[11]. Fortheindependentcascademodel,whenanode while dashed lines depict the edges where influence score is
u is activated, it has one chance to independently activate delivered when nodes are scanned. The lack of dashed line
itsneighboringnodeswithapropagationprobabilityp(u,v) fromnodev tonodev reflectsthatnodev isrankedhigher
3 2 2
ifv hasnotbeenactivatedyet. Eachnodecanbeactivated thannodev . Forthiscase,theLFAstrategycomputesthe
3
for only once. ranking-based marginal influence spread as follows:
TheLFAstrategyisbasedonthefollowingfact: bydefini-
tion, the ranking-based marginal influence spread M r (v) is 1. Initially, M r (v i )=1,1≤i≤5.
equaltotheexpectednumberofnodesactivatedbyv,given
2. Nodev isthenscannedasthelastnodeintheranking.
that when all nodes ranked higher than it have finished the 5
According to Equation( 1), v delivers p M (v ) =
propagation of their influence. This implies two basic rules 5 3;5 r 5
p tov andp (1−p )tov respectively. Accord-
under the calculation of M (v): 3;5 3 4;5 3;5 4
r ingly, M (v ) becomes (1−p )(1−p ).
r 5 4;5 3;5
1. Each node can only be activated by nodes ranked
3. Then node v is scanned. Since M (v ) is now 1+
higher than it in the given ranking; 4 r 4
p (1−p ),v deliversp +p p (1−p )tov .
4;5 3;5 4 2;4 2;4 4;5 3;5 2
2. When a node could be activated by multiple nodes, Note that the second item characterizes the influence
higher-ranked node has higher priority to activate it. ofv 2 tov 5 throughthepath⟨v 2 ,v 4 ,v 5 ⟩,reflectingthat
theLFAstrategycouldeffectivelycapturetheindirect
Following the two basic rules, the LFA strategy is de- influence among nodes. After v is scanned, the final
4
scribed as follows: value of M (v ) is (1−p )(1+p (1−p )).
r 4 2;4 4;5 3;5
• Givenarankingr,theinitialvalueofM (v )ofeach 4. When node v is scanned. it delivers p (1+p ) to
r ri 3 1;3 3;5
nodeissettedtobe1,satisfyingthefactthatthesum node v , with (1−p )(1+p ) remained.
1 1;3 3;5
of M (v ) over all nodes is equal to the number of
nodes r , si r n i ce each node can only be activated once. 5. Finally, node v 2 is scanned. After v 2 is scanned, the
final scores of M (v ) and M (v ) are (1−p )(1+
r 2 r 1 1;2
• Scanningtherankingfromthelastnodetothetopone, p + p p (1 − p )) and 1 + p (1 + p +
2;4 2;4 4;5 3;5 1;2 2;4
a fraction of M (v ) is delivered to the nodes ranked p p (1−p ))+p (1+p )respectively. Theterm
r ri 2;4 4;5 3;5 1;3 3;5
higher than v , reflecting the first rule; p p p (1−p ) in M (v ) captures the indirect
ri 1;2 2;4 4;5 3;5 r 1
influencefromv tov throughthepath⟨v ,v ,v ,v ⟩,
• The delivered influence score of M r (v ri ) is allocated indicatingthatt 1 heLF 5 Astrategydoescolle 1 ct 2 infl 4 uen 5 ce
among the nodes v j (j < i) in terms of their ranks, with multiple intermediate nodes on the path. Note
reflecting the second rule. that it is not necessary to scan node v since it does
1
Specifically, with η(v ,v ) denoting the fraction of not delivery influence to other nodes
rj ri
influencescoredeliveredtonodev fromnodev ,we
rj ri The above illustration tells us that the LFA strategy
have η(v ,v )=
rj ri efficiently calculates the ranking-based marginal influence
 ∏ ( )
M (v )p(v ,v ) 1−p(v ,v ) ,j <i, spread for all nodes, scanning each node only once. Mean-
r ri rj ri rk ri while, with indirect influence propagation being effectively

k:1≤k<j
captured, the LFA strategy provides a good delegate to
0, otherwise. calculateranking-basedmarginalinfluencespread. Weshow
(1) the numerical results of the LFA strategy and 20,000 times
478Figure 1: Illustration of the LFA strategy.
Table 2: Estimation on ranking-based marginal (a) Top-50 nodes (b) Influence spread
influence spread. MC indicates Monte Carlo
simulation, and LAF indicates the LAF strategy.
Figure 2: Convergence of IMRank
v v v v v
1 2 3 4 5
MC 1.29846 1.38800 0.77941 0.89406 0.64007
nodes ranked higher than it in ranking r. According to the
LAF 1.24000 1.42400 0.76800 0.92800 0.64000
submodularity of influence spread function, we can obtain
M r (v r′) ≤ ∑ M r′′(v r′) for each ∑ node v r′ (1 ≤ i ≤ k). Thus,
M a sh ll o o e n w d t n e ge C i s n a a r T s lo a d b o s l i n e m e u 2 i , n la o t u i u n o r i n f s o st r i r m n at t i e h n g e d y e c p a o s e ff e n e d r o s e f n s v t e e t c r t a y in sc c g a lo p d s u e e ;v m r = e o s d u 0 e l . l t 2 . s f A o to s r t N I h r o ′ e ′ t r ( e e k) w i . is e T h a a k v 1 e e ≤ n i p ≤ t r k o o g v M e e i t d r h ( e I v r r r , i ( ′ k ) w ) e ≤ ≤ ca ∑ n 1 1 o ≤ ≤ b i i t ≤ ≤ a k k in i M M I r r r ( ′ ( ′ v k ( r v ) i ′ r ) ≤ i ′ a ) n I = d r′( I k r I ′ ) r ( , ′ k ′ a ( ) k n = ) d .
the time-consuming Monte Carlo simulations. the equal-sign is tenable iff the sets of the top-k nodes in
Finally, we sum up the LFA strategy by explaining why ranking r and r′ are the same, otherwise I r (k)<I r′(k).
itworksremarkably. First,itachieveshighefficiencybyex- Based on the above conclusion, as long as the current
ploiting the interdependence between ranking and ranking- rankingisnotaself-consistentranking,ineachiterationall
based marginal influence spread, avoiding the adoption of
thevaluesofI(k)(1≤k≤n)arenondecreasing,andatleast
MonteCarlosimulationsdoneingreedyalgorithms. Second, oneI(k)increases. SinceeachI(k)hasanupperbound(i.e.,
itemploystheintermediatenodesasdelegates,inalast-to- n),IMRankeventuallyconvergestoaself-consistentranking
first manner, to capture both direct and indirect influence withinafinitenumberofiterations,startingfromanyinitial
propagation among nodes. In this way, ranking-based ranking.
marginalinfluencespreadcouldbeefficientlycalculatedvia
We now empirically illustrate the quick convergence of
scanningallnodesonlyonce. Inaddition,theLFAstrategy
IMRank, using a scientific collaboration network, namely
only offers one effective approximation rather than exact
HEPT, extracted from the “High Energy Physics-Theory”
calculationofinfluencespread. Thisispartlycausedbythe
sectionofthee-printarXivwebsitearXiv.org. Thisnetwork
restriction that lower-ranked nodes only deliver influence
is composed of 15K nodes and 59K edges. We run
score to higher-ranked neighboring nodes. In Section 5,
IMRank to select 50 seed nodes. Figure 2(a) shows the
we further improve the LFA strategy via relaxing this
percent of different nodes in two successive iterations.
restriction.
For two widely-used models, weighted independent cascade
4.3 ConvergenceofIMRank (WIC)model[11]andtrivalencyindependentcascade(TIC)
model [3], the set of top-50 nodes becomes unchanged after
Inthissection,wefirsttheoreticallyprovetheconvergence
5 and 8 iterations respectively. Clearly, IMRank converges
of IMRank. Then we illustrate the quick convergence of
much quicker than greedy algorithms, which requires k
IMRank empirically using a real-word network as example.
iteration for selecting k seed nodes. Figure 2(b) depicts
Theorem 2. Starting from any initial ranking of the influence spread of top-50 nodes. We employ the
relative influence spread, i.e., the ratio of the obtained
nodes, IMRank converges to a self-consistent ranking
influence spread in each iteration to the obtained influence
after a (cid:12)nite number of iterations.
spread when IMRank converges. IMRank only takes 3
Proof. We first prove that, for any k, the influence and 5 iterations to achieve a stable and high influence
spread of the top-k nodes, denoted as I(k) for convenience, spread under the two models respectively. The influence
is nondecreasing in the iterative process of IMRank. spread of top-k nodes seems always converges with smaller
After each iteration of IMRank, a ranking r is adjusted numberofiterationsthantheconvergenceofthesetoftop-k
to another ranking r′. Since IMRank adjusts all nodes in nodes. Therefore,onecanstopIMRanksafelyinpracticeby
decreasing order of their current ranking-based influence checking the change of top-k nodes between two successive
spread M r (v), the values of M r (v r′)(1 ≤ i ≤ k) are the iterations.
i
l∑argestkvaluesamon∑galltheM
r
(v). Hence,thereisI
r
(k)= Insum,wehavetheoreticallyandempiricallydemonstrat-
∑ r′ N 1 1 a ≤ ≤ r o e i i w ≤ ≤ t k k h le
M
M e t’ s r r s a
(
( m
v
v c r r o e i i ′ n ,
)
) s o i i d ff
≤
th e t r e h r a e w 1 i s n ≤ s e e e t i w ≤ s I k r o r (
M
f a k t n ) r o k
(
< p i
v
n - r k ∑ g i
′)
n
.
r 1 o ≤ ′′ d i
M
e ≤ o s b k
o
t i
r
M n a
e
i
o
r n r
v
a ( e
e
v n d
r
r k
,
i ′ f i ) r n
I
. o g r m
(
r
k)
j a u n s
=
d t
e
I e I d M M
d
n e c s R R
t
i e r
h
a a a s
e
n n p b k k r l
c
e e
o
c w a
n
r o d a
v
i u t n
e
e h l
r
k d s
g
t i t n
e
b i h m
n
g e e
c
s a a
e
L t i ff n i F
o
o e A
f
n c S t .
I
e s e
M
c E t d t r
R
x i a b o t t
a
y n e e
n
n g t 6
k
s y h .
.
i e v a
I
e a l
n
w c e
d
c x a
e
u y p
e
r s e
d
a r q
,
c im y u
th
i o e c
e
n k f t l m
c
y s
o
a f
n
c u r o
v
g r n
e
t i
r
v n h
g
e a e
e
r l r
n
g i s
c
e n h
e
s fl o t u
o
w o -
f
reorderingthetop-k nodesofrankingr′ indecreasingorder
of their ranks in ranking r, and keeping the ranks of other 4.4 Analysisofinitialranking
nodes still. Apparently, the sets of top-k nodes are the SinceIMRankisguaranteedtoconvergetoaself-consistent
same between ranking r′ and r′′, thus I r′(k) = I r′′(k). rankingfromanyinitialranking,itisnecessarytoextendthe
Then, for each node v r′, the set of nodes ranked higher discussion to its dependence on the initial ranking: does an
than it in ranking r′′ is i definitely a subset of the set of arbitrary initial ranking results in a unique convergence? If
479not,whatinitialrankingcorrespondstoabetterresult? We
explore those questions by empirically simulating IMRank
with five typical initial rankings as follows,
• Random: Nodes are initially ranked randomly;
• Degree: Nodes are initially ranked in descending
order of degrees (undirected networks) or out-degrees
(directed networks);
• InversedDegree: Nodes are initially ranked in as-
cendingorderofdegrees(undirectednetworks)orout-
degrees (directed networks);
• Strength: Nodes are initially ranked in descending
(a) Influence spread
orderofnodestrengths(undirectednetworks)ornode
out-strengths (directed networks). The node strength
is the sum of all weights on its edges. The node out-
strength is the sum of all weights on its out-edges;
• PageRank: Nodes are initially ranked in descending
order of PageRank scores [2], with the default value
0.15 for the damping factor parameter.
Empirical results on the HEPT dataset under the WIC
modelarereportedinFigure3,tocomparetheperformance
of IMRank with different initial rankings, as well as the
performance of those rankings alone. We also report the
performance of classic greedy algorithm for comparison, (b) Running time when k=50
implemented with CELF optimization [13]. Performance of
IMRank with Random initial ranking and Random ranking
Figure 3: Comparison between IMRank with
alone are averaged over 50 trials.
different initial rankings under the WIC model.
With the empirical results we conclude:
• Withdifferentinitialrankings,IMRankcouldconverge
todifferentself-consistentrankings. However,IMRank 5. ADVANCEDIMRANK
consistently improves the initial rankings in terms of
IntheLFAstrategy,anodev isonlyallowedtoallocate
obtained influence spread. ri
its influence score to a higher ranked neighboring node v ,
rj
• Comparable with the greedy algorithm, IMRank with implying an assumption that a node can only be activated
a “good” initial ranking such as Degree, Strength, by higher ranked neighbors. That assumption ignores the
and PageRank shows indistinguishable performance, possibility that, a lower ranked node v rj activates a higher
s
ra
h
n
ow
ki
n
ng
in
p
a
re
s
fe
in
rs
gl
n
e
o
c
d
u
e
r
s
ve
w
i
i
n
th
F
h
ig
ig
u
h
re
in
3
fl
(
u
a
e
)
n
.
c
A
e;
goodinitial r
o
a
f
n
a
k
n
e
o
d
th
n
e
o
r
de
no
v
d
ri
e
b
v
y
rk
pl
w
ay
it
in
h
g
k
th
<
er
i.
ole
T
o
a
f
ke
an
th
in
e
te
p
r
a
m
th
ed
⟨
i
v
a
1
t
,
e
v
a
3
g
,
e
v
n
2 ⟩
t
inFigure1forexample. Whenv isselectedasaseed,itis
• IMRank with a“neural”initial ranking such as Ran- 1
possible that it activates v and then v as an intermediate
3 3
dom ranking also shows fair performance, slightly
agent activates v .
2
poorer than the greedy algorithm and IMRank with
To combat the above problem, we propose a generalized
agoodinitialranking. Aneuralinitialrankingprefers
LFA strategy that trades a slight increase in running time
no nodes;
forbetteraccuracyinestimatingM ,andthereforeimproves
r
• IMRankwitha“bad”initialrankingsuchasInversed- the performance of IMRank on influence spread. The
Degreerankingshowsremarkablyimprovementsupon generalizedLFAstrategyrelaxestheaboveassumptionand
the initial ranking alone but is dominated by the exploresinfluence paths insteadofhigherrankedneighbors,
greedy algorithm. A bad initial ranking prefers nodes which is introduced below to avoid duplicated computation
with low influence. that a path is contained in another path.
Therefore, IMRank is robust to the selection of initial Definition 3. In(cid:13)uence path: Given a ranking r, a
ranking, and IMRank works well with an initial ranking simple path d (v ,v )=⟨v ,··· ,v ⟩ is an influence path
preferingnodeswithhighinfluence,whichcouldbeobtained r rj ri rj ri
if v is the only node along the path that is ranked higher
efficiently in practice. A possible explanation is the priori rj
than v .
biasthat,ahigh-rankednodeearnsmoreallocatedinfluence ri
score than a low-ranked node, even with the same topolog- Lemma 1. A directed edge ⟨v ,v ⟩ is an influence path
ical circumstance. Thus, it helps IMRank to converge to a rj ri
if j <i.
good ranking if influential nodes are initially ranked high.
Among the three “good” initial rankings with indistin- Lemma 2. Anodev allocatesinfluencescoretoanother
guishable performance, Degree offers a good candidate of ri
node v only along an influence path d (v ,v ).
initialranking,sincecomputingtheinitialrankingconsumes rj r rj ri
alargepartinthetotalrunningtimeofIMRank,asshownin Proof. Consider a path d (v ,v ). It is not negligible
r rj ri
Figure3(b). Moreover,Figure3(b)alsoshowsthat,IMRank only when j < i, since v has no chance to trigger a
rj
runsmorethan4ordersofmagnitudefasterthantraditional cascade to activate v immediately or eventually if j > i.
ri
greedy algorithm. Besides, v has no chance to activate v along this path
rj ri
480if there exists an intermediate node v with k < j, since
rk
v is triggered earlier. The path should also be neglected
rk
if there exists an intermediate node v with j < k < i
rk
to avoid duplicated computation, since the influence score
allocated from v to v already contains the fraction that
rk rj
v activates v , as discussed in Section 4.2. Therefore,
rj ri
influencescoreisallocatedthoughasimplepathd (v ,v )
r rj ri
if and only if v is the only node along the path that is
rj
ranked higher than v .
ri
We denote ρ (v ,v ) to the probability that v is
r ri rj ri
activated by v through any influence path. It is equal to
rj
the probability that at least one influence path d (v ,v ) Figure 4: Impact of l on the performance of
r rj ri
has all its nodes activated, minus the probability that v IMRank.
ri
isalreadyactivatedbeforev attempts. ρ (v ,v )canbe
rj r ri rj
obtained as follows,
becarefullyselectedaccordingtotheexpectedaccuracyand
affordable computational cost.
ρ (v ,v )=
r ri rj 
∏ ∏ 6. EXPERIMENTS
 1− (1−p(d ))  (1−ρ (v ,v )),
r r ri rk
In this section, we evaluate IMRank on real-world net-
dr∈Dr(vrj ;vri ) 1≤k<i
worksbycomparingIMRankwithstate-of-the-artinfluence
∏ (2) maximization algorithms.
wherep(d )= p isthejointprobabil-
r ⟨vrx;vry ⟩∈dr vrx;vry
6.1 ExperimentalSetup
itythatv activatesallnodesonapathd ,andD (v ,v )
rj r r ri rj
denotes the set of all influence paths from v to v .
To summarize, the generalized LFA strate r g j y rep r l i aces the 6.1.1 Diffusionmodels
allocating method: a node v ri delivers a fraction of its Experiments are conducted under two widely-used inde-
influence score to each higher ranked node reachable with pendent cascade models:
an influence path, instead of each higher ranked neighbor,
while replacing p(·,v ) with ρ(·,v ). • Weighted independent cascade (WIC) model
ri ri
In practice, we limit the search range within influence [11]: Each edge (u,v) is assigned a propagation
paths no longer than l hops, since long paths are expensive probability p(u,v) = 1/d v , where d v is the indegree
to count but contribute little due to low probability to of node v.
propagate influence. The LFA strategy is a special case of
the generalized LFA strategy with l=1. • Trivalency independent cascade (TIC) model
The time and space complexity of IMRank with the [3]: Each edge is assigned a propagation probability
generalized LFA strategy is low. Its space complexity is selected from {0.1,0.01,0.001} in a uniform random
O(n), storing the value of M (v) for each node. Its time manner, indicating high, medium and low levels of
r
complexity mainly depends on l. We denote d to the influence.
max
largestnumberofpathsendinanarbitrarynodewithlength
6.1.2 Baselinealgorithms
no more than l. The time required for scanning each node
is O(d logd ), including the time used for searching Thecomparedalgorithmsincludetwoimplementationsof
max max
candidatenodes,sortingcandidatenodesbytheirranks,and IMRank and two state-of-the-art heuristic algorithms, i.e.,
allocatinginfluence. Finally,thetimecomplexityofIMRank PMIA and IRIE. Details are as follows:
isO(nTd logd ),whereT isthenumberofiterations
max max • IMRank1: ThisistheIMRankwithDegreeasinitial
IMRank takes before convergence. According to extensive
ranking and l = 1. According to the analysis of
experimentresults,T isalwayssignificantlysmallerthank.
section 4.3, we set its stopping criteria as when the
Besides, d is usually much smaller than n, e.g. d
max max
setsoftop-k nodesarethesameduringtwosuccessive
equals to the largest indegree among all nodes when l = 1.
iterations or the iteration runs 10 rounds.
Therefore, the running time of IMRank is affordable.
Figure 4 shows the impact of l on the performance of
• IMRank2: ThisistheIMRankwithDegreeasinitial
IMRank, measured with the influence spread on the NEPT
ranking and l =2, with the same stopping criteria as
network with WIC model and k = 50 for example. We
IMRank1.
report the results of IMRank with Degree and Random
initialrankingsandtheresultsforotherinitialrankingsare • PMIA: This heuristic algorithm estimates influence
similar. When l increases from 1 to 2, there is an obvious
spreadbasedonmaximuminfluencepaths[3]. Weuse
increaseontheperformance. Itsupportsthatalargerlleads
the recommended parameter setting θ=1/320.
to more accurate estimation of marginal influence spread,
and thus a better solution. With l > 2, the performance • IRIE: This heuristic algorithm integrates influence
increaseslittle,becausethepropagationprobabilitiesoflong rankingwithinfluenceestimation[10]. Itsparameters
paths decrease exponentially with their length, resulting in α and θ are setted to be 0.7 and 1/320 respectively,
little necessity to count long paths. On the other hand, the and the maximum times of iterations for initial round
running time of IMRank increases rapidly with l, as shown and subsequent rounds are 20 and 5 respectively as
in the inset figure of Figure 4. In that case l = 2 is good recommended.
enoughandfast,whileinfuturepracticeasuitablel should
481(a) WIC model (b) TIC model (c) Running Time
Figure 5: Influence spread and running time on the PHY dataset
(a) WIC model (b) TIC model (c) Running Time
Figure 6: Influence spread and running time on the DBLP dataset
these five networks based on the consideration that these
Table 3: Statistics of test networks
networkspossessvariouskindsofrelationshipsanddifferent
Datasets #Nodes #Edges Directed? sizes ranging from hundreds of thousands edges to millions
PHY 37K 231K undirected of edges. Actually we test these algorithms on many other
DBLP 655K 2M undirected networks, and the results are similar. Limited by space,
EPINIONS 76K 509K directed results on these networks are not included in this paper.
DOUBAN 552K 22M directed All experiments are conducted on a server with 1.9GHz
LIVEJOURNAL 4M 69M directed Quad-Core AMD Opteron(tm) Processor 8347HEx4 and
64G memory.
6.2 Experimentalresults
6.1.3 Datasets
We evaluate IMRank on real-world networks by compar-
Experiments are conducted on five real-world networks, ing it with state-of-the-art algorithms. Evaluation metrics
two undirected scientific collaboration networks and three include influence spread and running time. For the com-
directedonlinesocialnetworks. Table3givesbasicstatistics parison of obtained influence spread, we test the cases of
of those networks. One of the two scientific collaboration k = 1,5,10,15,20,25,30,35,40,45,50. For the comparison
networks, denoted as PHY, is obtained from the complete of running time, we focus on the typical case k =50. Each
list of papers of the Physics section of the e-print arXiv figureofFigures5-8showstheresultsonacertainnetwork.
website. The other one, denoted as DBLP, is extracted The first two subfigures give the results of influence spread
from the DBLP Computer Science Bibliography 1. The under the WIC model and the TIC model respectively, and
threeonlinesocialnetworksareEPINIONS,DOUBAN,and the last one gives the results of running time.
LIVEJOURNAL2,respectivelyextractedfromthewebsites Figure 5 shows the experimental results on the PHY
of epinions.com, douban.com and livejournal.com. In the dataset. Under the WIC model, IMRank2 achieves the
EPINIONS dataset, an edge between two users u and v, best influence spread, followed by IMRank1, outperforming
denoted as ⟨u,v⟩, represents that user u trusts user v. In PMIAandIRIE.ThedistinguishedaccuracyofIMRank2is
theDOUBANdataset[8],anedgebetweentwousersuandv attributedtothefactthat,IMRank2exploresmoreinfluence
representsthatuserufollowsuserv. IntheLIVEJOURNAL paths to accurately estimate marginal influence spread.
network [1], an edge between two users u and v represents PMIAexhibitstheworstperformance,6.3%lowerinfluence
that user u declares user v as his/her friend. We choose spread than IMRank2 when k=50. Under the TIC model,
as shown in Figure 5(b), similar results are obtained, and
1http://www.informatik.uni-trier.de/∼ley/db/ the gaps between those algorithms become more visible.
2EPINIONSandLIVEJOURNALcanbedownloadedfrom For influence spread, IMRank2 and IMRank1 are the top
http://snap.stanford.edu/data/. DOUBANcanbeobtained twoalgorithmswhilePMIAslightlyoutperformsIRIE.The
on demand via email to the authors. influence spread obtained by IMRank2 is 13.8% and 12.7%
482(a) WIC model (b) TIC model (c) Running Time
Figure 7: Influence spread and running time on the EPINIONS dataset
(a) DOUBAN (b) LIVEJOURNAL (c) Running Time
Figure 8: Influence spread and running time on the DOUBAN and LIVEJOURNAL datasets
higher than that obtained by IRIE and PMIA respectively. order of magnitude faster. For the TIC model, IMRank2
Moreover,asshowninFigure5(c),IMRank1andIMRank2 achieves the best influence spread and IMRank1 takes the
runfasterthanthecompetingalgorithmsunderboththetwo second place. Both IMRank1 and IMRank2 significantly
models. IMRank1 is the fastest one followed by IMRank2 outperformPMIAandIRIE.Moreover,therunningtimeof
,whilePMIAtakesthethirdplaceandIRIErunsslowest. In IMRank1 is only 0.1% of the running time of PMIA and
particular,therunningtimesofIRIEandPMIAare30times 5% of that of IRIE. With similar running time, IMRank2
and10timeslongerthantherunningtimeofIMRank1under achieves significant higher influence spread than that of
theWICmodelrespectively,and18timesand9timeslonger PMIA and IRIE.
than that of IMRank1 under the TIC model. With the Figure 8 shows the results on the DOUBAN and LIVE-
running time dramatically reduced, IMRank1 still achieves JOURNALdatasets. ThenumberofedgesofDOUBANand
betterinfluencespreadwhichisabout5.5%and4.5%higher LIVEJOURNALis22millionsand69millionsrespectively.
than that of IRIE and PMIA respectively. The consistent Here we only give the results under the WIC model.
performance of IMRank1 and IMRank2 demonstrates the On the DOUBAN network, the four algorithms achieve
effectiveness of IMRank. The inconsistent performance of comparable influence spread. However, IMRank1 runs
PMIA and IRIE under the two diffusion models illustrates more than two orders of magnitude faster than PMIA and
that both PMIA and IRIE are unstable. more than one order of magnitude faster than IRIE. On
Figure 6 shows the results on DBLP dataset. The the LIVEJOURNAL network, IMRank2 and IRIE have
four algorithms performs similar on this dataset as on the similar influence spread, while IMRank1 follows and PMIA
PHY dataset. For the WIC model, IMRank2 achieves the achieves the lowest influence spread. Note that IMRank2
highest influence spread and IMRank1 is the fastest one. runs faster than IRIE, and IMRank1 runs much faster
In particular, when k = 50, the highest influence spread is than PMIA. We do not show the results under the TIC
achievedbyIMRank2anditsrunningtimeislessthanPMIA modelsincenovisibledifferenceisobservedamongthefour
and IRIE. IMRank1 obtains similar influence spread to tested algorithms. This is due to the fact that selecting
PMIAanditsrunningtimeisoneorderofmagnitudesmaller one influential node always achieves a very large influence
thanthatofPMIA.FortheTICmodel,IMRank1,IMRank2 spreadonDOUBANandLIVEJOURNALnetworks,andno
and PMIA achieve very similar influence spread, which is increase of influence spread can be gained by adding a new
significantly higher than the influence spread achieved by seed. Such phenomenon has been observed and discussed
IRIE.Moreover,IMRank1runsnearly8timesand13times in [11] and [3]. The possible reason is that the influence
faster than PMIA and IRIE. networks generated by the TIC model on the two networks
Figure7 givestheresultsonEPINIONSdataset. For the have a relatively large strongly connected component.
WICmodel,IMRank1andIMRank2runfasterthanPMIA These experiments show that, in different scenarios, IM-
andIRIE.Inparticular,comparedtoPMIA,IMRank1runs Rank consistently perform well while PMIA and IRIE per-
two orders of magnitudes faster and IMRank2 runs one form unstable. IMRank1 always runs more than one order
483of magnitude faster than PMIA and IRIE, and achieves [3] W. Chen, C. Wang, and Y. Wang. Scalable influence
similar influence spread as them. IMRank2 consistently maximization for prevalent viral marketing in
provides better influence spread than PMIA and IRIE, and large-scale social networks. In KDD’10, pages
runs faster than them. In addition, under the two differ- 1029–1038, 2010.
ent diffusion models, IMRank shows similar improvements [4] W. Chen, Y. Wang, and S. Yang. Efficient influence
on influence spread from the relative improvement angle. maximization in social networks. In KDD’09, pages
However, the improvements of IMRank seems more visible 199–208, 2009.
under the TIC model. With respect to this model, the [5] S. Cheng, H. Shen, J. Huang, G. Zhang, and
links between influential nodes have high probability to be X. Cheng. Staticgreedy: Solving the
assigned a relative high propagation probability(p = 0.1), scalability-accuracy dilemma in influence
whichcountsagainstheuristicmethodstoaccurateestimate maximization. In CIKM’13, 2013.
influence spread. Hence, we speculate that, IMRank has [6] P. Domingos and M. Richardson. Mining the network
moreadvantagesthanPMIAandIRIEtohandlesuchcases. value of customers. In KDD’01, pages 57–66, 2001.
[7] A. Goyal, W. Lu, and L. V. Lakshmanan. Celf++:
7. CONCLUSIONS optimizing the greedy algorithm for influence
In this paper, we investigated influence maximization maximization in social networks. In WWW’11, pages
from a novel ranking perspective. We proposed an efficient 47–48, 2011.
iterative framework IMRank to explore the benefits of [8] J. Huang, X.-Q. Cheng, H.-W. Shen, T. Zhou, and
accurategreedyalgorithmsandefficientheuristicestimation X. Jin. Exploring social influence via posterior effect
of influence spread. This framework effectively tunes any of word-of-mouth recommendations. In WSDM’12,
initial ranking into a self-consistent ranking in an iterative WSDM ’12, pages 573–582, 2012.
manner through fully leveraging the interplay between the [9] Q. Jiang, G. Song, C. Gao, Y. Wang, W. Si, and
rankingofnodesandtheirranking-basedmarginalinfluence K. Xie. Simulated annealing based influence
spread. Alast-to-firstallocatingstrategyisfurtherproposed maximization in social networks. In AAAI’11, 2011.
to efficiently estimate the ranking-based marginal influence [10] K. Jung, W. Heo, and W. Chen. Irie: Scalable and
spreadundertheindependentcascademodel. Thisstrategy robust influence maximization in social networks. In
is elaborately designed according to the characteristics ICDM’12, pages 918–923, 2012.
of the independent cascade model and the ranking-based [11] D. Kempe, J. Kleinberg, and E. Tardos. Maximizing
marginal influence spread. We further generalize the last- the spread of influence through a social network. In
to-firstallocatingstrategyinordertoachievemoreaccurate KDD’03, pages 137–146, 2003.
estimation. We also prove the convergence of IMRank and [12] M. Kimura, K. Saito, R. Nakano, and H. Motoda.
analyze the impact of initial ranking. Moreover, IMRank Extracting influential nodes on a social network for
always works well with simple heuristic rankings, such as information diffusion. Data Mining and Knowledge
degree,strength. Extensiveexperimentsonlargescalereal- Discovery, 20(1):70–97, 2010.
worldsocialnetworksdemonstratetheefficiencyofIMRank.
[13] J. Leskovec, A. Krause, C. Guestrin, C. Faloutsos,
Its scalability outperforms the state-of-the-art heuristics
J. VanBriesen, and N. Glance. Cost-effective outbreak
while its accuracy is comparable to the greedy algorithms.
detection in networks. In KDD’07, pages 420–429,
For future work, we will try to analyze the accuracy of
2007.
IMRank theoretically. Moreover, we believe our proposed
[14] M. Mathioudakis, F. Bonchi, C. Castillo, A. Gionis,
iterative framework is of generality for some cases which
and A. Ukkonen. Sparsification of influence networks.
greedy algorithm is suitable for, and it can also be adapted
In KDD’11, pages 529–537, 2011.
in some re-ranking applications. We will try to extend it
[15] R. Narayanam and Y. Narahari. A shapley
to other problems beyond influence maximization, such as
value-based approach to discover influential nodes in
diversity problem in information retrieval.
social networks. IEEE Transactions on Automation
Science and Engineering, 8(1):130–147, 2011.
8. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
[16] M. Richardson and P. Domingos. Mining
This work was funded by the National Basic Research knowledge-sharing sites for viral marketing. In
Program of China (973 program) under grant numbers KDD’02, pages 61–70, 2002.
(2012CB316303, 2013CB329602), and the National Natural [17] D.Sheldon,B.Dilkina,A.N.Elmachtoub,R.Finseth,
Science Foundation of China withNos 61202215, 61174152, A. Sabharwal, J. Conrad, C. P. Gomes, D. Shmoys,
61232010,61202213,and11305219. TheauthorsthankWei W. Allen, O. Amundsen, and W. Vaughan.
Chen for providing the codes of the PMIA algorithm, and Maximizing the spread of cascades using network
thank Kyomin Jung for providing the codes of the IRIE design. In UAI’10, pages 517–526, 2010.
algorithm. The authors also thank to the members of the [18] J. Tang, J. Sun, C. Wang, and Z. Yang. Social
group NASC (www.groupnasc.org) for helpful discussions. influence analysis in large-scale networks. In KDD’09,
pages 807–816, 2009.
9. REFERENCES [19] C. Wang, W. Chen, and Y. Wang. Scalable influence
maximization for independent cascade model in
[1] L. Backstrom, D. Huttenlocher, J. Kleinberg, and
large-scale social networks. Data Mining and
X. Lan. Group formation in large social networks:
Knowledge Discovery, 25(3):545–576, 2012.
membership, growth, and evolution. In KDD’06, pages
[20] Y. Wang, G. Cong, G. Song, and K. Xie.
44–54, 2006.
Community-based greedy algorithm for mining top-k
[2] S. Brin and L. Page. The anatomy of a large-scale
influential nodes in mobile social networks. In
hypertextual web search engine. In WWW’98, pages
KDD’10, pages 1039–1048, 2010.
107–117, 1998.
484