AI Review
Outline

   Problem-solving
        Classical search
        Beyond classical search
        Problem-Specific Search

   Machine Learning
        Supervised Learning
        Performance Evaluation
        Unsupervised Learning
        Automated Machine Learning

   Knowledge and Reasoning
        Representing and Inference with logic
        Representing and Inference with Uncertainty
        Knowledge Graph and Recommender System
    Problem-solving

   Classical search(use a tree representation)
         Uninformed Search
                Breadth-first search (BFS)
                Uniform-cost search (UCS)
                Depth-first search (DFS)
                Depth-limited search (DLS)
                Iterative deepening search (IDS)
                Bidirectional search
         Heuristic (informed) Search
                Greedy Best-first Search (Greedy Search)
                A* Search
                       Admissible Heuristic
   Beyond classical search(generalize to other types of representation) -> solution space
         “single-point” search framework
                Local Search
                Simulated Annealing
                Tabu Search
                Bayesian Optimization
         Population-based search(Evolutionary Algorithms)
   Problem-Specific Search
         CSP
         Game
Heuristic search

   Uninformed search                             𝑓(𝑥) = ℎ(𝑥)
                                                         Greedy Best-first Search(Greedy search)
               no
Domain knowledge                                     • 𝑔 𝑥 : 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑠𝑜 𝑓𝑎𝑟 𝑡𝑜 𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑐ℎ 𝑥.
                          evaluation function        • ℎ(𝑥): 𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑡𝑜 𝑔𝑜𝑎𝑙 𝑓𝑟𝑜𝑚 𝑥.
              yes                f(x)                • 𝑓(𝑥): 𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑 𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑜𝑓 𝑝𝑎𝑡ℎ 𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑔ℎ 𝑥 𝑡𝑜 𝑔𝑜𝑎𝑙.


     Heuristic search        diff from BFS
                                                                      ℎ 𝑥 =0
                                                          A*                            UCS
                        node 𝑥 with the lowest   𝑓 𝑥 = 𝑔 𝑥 + ℎ(𝑥)
                        𝑓(𝑥) is expanded first                                       𝑓(𝑥) = 𝑔(𝑥)



                                                   Heuristic function h is admissible if:
                                                   ∀𝑥→h(𝑥) ≤h∗(𝑥), h∗(𝑥): the true cost from
                                                   𝑥 to goal.
                                                   A* with h is optimal if h is admissible.


                                                   For admissible h1 and h2,if h2(𝑥)
                                                   ≥h1(𝑥),∀𝑛,then h2 dominates h1 and is more
                                                   efficient for search.
Population-based search(Evolutionary Algorithms)
               Generate 𝑃0 𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ 𝑁 𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑎𝑙 𝑠𝑜𝑙𝑢𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠
                              𝑖= 0



                                                                            How to generate a new individual
 Generate 𝑃𝑖+1 𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 𝑜𝑛 𝑃𝑖 :
 1. Get fitness value for each individual in 𝑃𝑖
 2. Generate M offsprings, each offspring generated by the following
      workflow:                                                           𝑖 =𝑖+1
     1.1 select 2 parents from 𝑃𝑖
     1.2 obtain 1 or 2 offsprings from crossover the 2 parents.
     1.3 apply mutation to the offspring with a small probability.
     1.4 calculate the fitness values of the offsprings.
 3. Select N individuals(𝑷𝐢+𝟏 ) based on 𝑃𝑖 𝑎𝑛𝑑 M offsprings using some
 selection(replacement) strategy.




                                                                             Stop?             Return the best
Game

   For the following game tree, in which the numbers at the leaf nodes indicates their utility
    values, please applies Alpha-Beta pruning to prune unnecessary branches. Please directly
    labels the nodes with (Alpha, Beta) values, and put a “X” on branches that should be
    pruned.
Ref answer：
CSP


   Numbers 1-9 are needs to be filled in a 3 by 3 squares so that all the
    columns, rows and diagonals add up to 15.
        Please formulate the above problem as a CSP.
        Suppose Backtracking Search is applied to the problem, which variable will be
         first chosen to assign value (3 points), why?
Ref answer：
     Please formulate the above problem as a CSP.

A constraint satisfaction problem consists of three components, 𝑋, 𝐷, 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝐶 . For this problem：

    𝑥11   𝑥12   𝑥13
    𝑥21   𝑥22   𝑥23
    𝑥31   𝑥32   𝑥33


𝑋 = {𝑥11 , 𝑥12 , 𝑥13 , 𝑥21 , 𝑥22 , 𝑥23 , 𝑥31 , 𝑥32 , 𝑥33 }

The domain of each variable is the set 𝐷𝑖 = {1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9ሽ

C: σ3𝑗=1 𝑥𝑖𝑗 = 15 𝑖 = 1,2,3

    σ3𝑖=1 𝑥𝑖𝑗 = 15 𝑗 = 1,2,3
    σ3𝑖=1 𝑥𝑖𝑖 = 15

    σ3𝑖=1 𝑥𝑖(4−𝑖) = 15
𝑥𝑖1𝑗1 ≠ 𝑥𝑖2𝑗2 𝑖𝑓 𝑖1 ≠ 𝑖2 , 𝑗1 ≠ 𝑗2
     Suppose Backtracking Search is applied to the problem, which variable will be
      first chosen to assign value (3 points), why?
      𝑥22 , most constrained variable.
   Numbers 1-9 are needs to be filled in a 3 by 3 squares so that all the
    columns, rows and diagonals add up to 15.
         Please formulate the above problem as a CSP.
         Suppose Backtracking Search is applied to the problem, which variable will be
          first chosen to assign value (3 points), why?




         How to solve the magic square problem using Local Search?                solution space?



                                                            BFS?         DFS?


                                                                   …
Machine Learning

   Supervised Learning

         Support Vector Machines

         Artificial Neural Networks

         Decision Trees

   Performance Evaluation

         Performance Metrics

         Estimating the Generalization

   Unsupervised Learning

         Clustering: KMeans

         Learning Low-Dimensional Representations: PVC, LLE

   Automated Machine Learning

         The hyper-parameters of commonly used models

         Tuning Hyper-parameters: Grid Search, heuristic Search, …
Confusion Matrix

   A binary classifier is applied to a dataset of 100 samples, and the following
    confusion matrix is obtained:

                                Predicted Positive           Predicted Negative
    Actual Positive             40                           10
    Actual Negative             20                           30

    Calculate the following metrics:
    • Accuracy
    • Precision
    • Recall
    • F1-measure
Ref answer：




              Calculate the following metrics:
              • Accuracy = (40+30)/100 = 0.7
              • Precision = 40/(40+20) ≈ 0.67
              • Recall     = 40/(40+10) = 0.8
              • F1-measure = 2*0.67*0.8/(0.67+0.8) ≈ 0.73
ROC Analysis

   The classifier from the above Question outputs a probability score for each
    sample. By varying the classification threshold, the following TPR (True
    Positive Rate) and FPR (False Positive Rate) values are recorded:
    Threshold                 TPR                        FPR
    0.1                       1.00                       0.90
    0.3                       0.90                       0.50
    0.5                       0.70                       0.30
    0.7                       0.40                       0.15
    0.9                       0.20                       0.05
    (1)Plot the ROC curve using the given data points (FPR on the x-axis, TPR on the y-axis).
    (2)Based on the ROC curve, explain how you would select the optimal threshold for this
    classifier.
    (3)Define the AUC (Area Under Curve) and explain its significance in evaluating classifier
    performance.
Ref answer：
(1)ROC Curve




(2) minimizing false positives while maximizing true positives, threshold = 0.3 or 0.5.
(3) AUC (Area Under Curve) is the area under the ROC curve measures the classifier's ability to
distinguish between classes. A higher AUC indicates better classification performance. An AUC
of 1.0 represents a perfect classifier, while an AUC of 0.5 corresponds to random guessing.
Supervised Learning

   Review Supervised learning Q&A .pptx
Unsupervised learning


   Review Unsupervised learning.pptx
Auto ML
Knowledge and Reasoning

   Representing and Inference with Logic

         Represent Knowledge with Propositional Logic

         Inference with Propositional Logic: CNF, SAT, DPLL, Resolution algorithm

         Represent Knowledge with First-Order Logic: Syntax of FOL

         Inference with FOL: reduce to propositional logic, Resolution， Chaining Algorithms

   Representing and Inference with Uncertainty

         Bayesian Networks

         Exact Inference with Bayesian Networks

         Approximate Inference with Bayesian Networks

   Knowledge Graph and Recommender System

         Recommender System: Content-based method, CF-based method, Hybrid method

         KG and how to construct KG

         Knowledge Graph Completion: Path-based method, Embedding-based method

         KG-Based Recommender System
Representing and Inference with Logic
And Uncertainty

   Review Logic and Bayesian Questions Answer.pptx
Knowledge Graph and Recommender System


   Review AI_lec08 and AI_lec13
   What is the key of a recommender system? What problems does it
    typically need to overcome?
   What is the Pearson Correlation Coefficient, and how is it used in
    collaborative filtering methods?
   Ref Answer：
   The core lies in the score function, which needs to efficiently generate
    recommendations in seconds. However, in many applications, the system must
    handle millions of users and items. There is always a trade-off between efficiency
    and accuracy.
   The Pearson Correlation Coefficient is a normalized measure of covariance that
    represents the correlation between two users or two items. In collaborative
    filtering, it is used to calculate the similarity between users or items. This similarity
    is then utilized to predict interaction probabilities.
