Artificial Intelligence (CS303)
Lecture 5: Supervised Learning Methods




                                         0
Hints for this lecture
• Technically, learning tasks are tackled by optimizing a (partially pre-defined)
 model with respect to a user-defined evaluation (objective) function.




                                                                               1
Recap
• We mainly use classification problem as an example:
    • Classification is a sufficiently abstract and have numerous applications.
    • It has so far led to many successful applications of machine learning and AI.


• Given a set of class labels and a set of training data, usually represented by a set of features,
  to achieve a classifier that (ideally) assigns the correct label to any previous unseen data.


                                      ID      Height     Weight
                                      John    1.75米      80KG
                                      Mike    1.8米       75KG

                                                                                              2
Outline of this lecture
• Preliminary Notes

• From Linear Regression to Support Vector Machines

• Artificial Neural Networks

• Decision Trees



                                                      3
Linear Discriminant Analysis
• Linear Discriminant Analysis: Viewing each datum to lie in a Euclidean space, find a straight
  line (a linear function) in the space (recall the example used in the last lecture).

• In linearly separable case, there are more than one optimal hyperplane




                                                                                            4
Support Vector Machines
• Basic idea: margin maximization
Ø the minimum distance between a data point to the decision boundary is maximized
Ø intuitively, the safest and most robust
Ø support vectors: datapoints the margin pushes up




                                                                                    5
Support Vector Machines
                Ø decision boundary: w, x +b = 0

                Ø plus-plane: hyperplane touching some positive
                  examples, parallel to the decision boundary


                    w, x +b = c for some constant c


                Ø minus-plane: hyperplane touching some negative
                  examples, taking the form below since decision
                  boundary is half way between plus and minus planes:
                                      w, x +b = −c
                                                                  6
Support Vector Machines
                                              2
• Basic idea: margin maximization (margin=        )
                                             ǁwǁ2




                                                      Dual problem
                                                                     7
Kernel Trick
• SVM only involves dot product between vectors, thus kernel function can be used to
 introduce non-linearlity.




                                                                                       8
Soft Margin SVM
• Even with kernel trick, it is hardly to guarantee that the training data are linearly
  separable, thus a soft margin rather than hard margin is used in practice.




                                                                                          9
Artificial Neural Networks

• Inspired by biological neural networks (fancy story).




• In many AI literature, simply referred to neural networks.


                                                               10
Artificial Neural Networks

• A highly nonlinear function that mimic the structure of biological NN.

    Input
       输入层Layer          隐层 Layer
                      Hidden                                                 输出层Layer
                                                                          Output

                                 net11            y1     w21,1                         net 21             z1
            w11,1     ∑                   f1                              ∑                       f2

      x1                  b11                                                 b 21

      x2                         net12            y2                                   net 22             z2
                      ∑                   f   1
                                                                          ∑                       f   2          Multi-Layer Perceptron
      x3
                          b12                                                 b 22
      !!                                  !       !                                               !       !
                                 net1s1           y s1                                 net 2s 2           z s2
      xR
           w1s1 , R   ∑                   f1                              ∑                       f2
                                                              2
                                                          w    s 2 , s1
                          b1s1                                                b 2s 2


                      y = f 1 ( W1x + b1 )                                z = f 2 (W 2y + b2 )


                                                                                                                                          11
Training NNs
• Optimize weights to minimize the Loss function
                                         -
                                       1               1     ,
                               𝐽 𝑤 =     ' 𝑦) − 𝑧) , =   𝐲−𝐳
                                       2               2
                                        )./



• Training algorithm: gradient descent, with Back Propagation algorithm as a
  representative example.

                                             Chain rule
                               𝜕𝐽                               𝜕𝐽   𝜕𝐽 𝜕𝑛𝑒𝑡)        𝜕𝑛𝑒𝑡)
                  𝛻𝑤34 = −𝜂                                        =           = −𝛿)
                              𝜕𝑤34                             𝜕𝑤)4 𝜕𝑛𝑒𝑡) 𝜕𝑤)4       𝜕𝑤)4
Update weights between output and hidden layers           Update weights between input and hidden layers
                                                                                                    12
Back Propagation Algorithm
   input: training examples:

              D = (x1 , y1), (x2, y2), . . . , (xm, ym) , xi ∈ℝd, yi ∈ℝl
              learning rate η

   1.   while Optimality conditions are not satisfied do
   2.       for all (xk, yk ) ∈D do
   3.           calculate current outputs by current parameters
   4.           calculate gradient for output-layer neurons
   5.           calculate gradient for hidden-layer neurons
   6.           update weights and thresholds
   7.   end

                                                                           13
Convolutional Neural Networks




                                14
More Noteworthy Issues
• Universal Approximation Theory (Google it by yourself).


• According to UAT, in ideal case, one hidden layer is sufficient for most (if not all) problem.


• Fully connected NN (MLP) with more than 1 hidden layer is very difficult to train.


• CNN is basically a manually designed method for introducing sparsity into NN, such that it
  can be trained more easily.




                                                                                               15
Nonmetric Data
• In many cases, data are not represented as numerical values, e.g.,
   • Color, taste of fruits
   • DNA sequences (AGCTTCAGATTCCA)
   • Gender, Nationality, place of birth



• Such data can be treated as numerical values to make methods such as
  SVM and ANN applicable, but the best way to represent (encode) them is
  usually unknown, and it is hard to interpret the classification results.



                                                                             16
Decision Trees
• A natural way to handle nonmetric data (also applicable to real-valued data).

• Analogous to a search tree, but
   • each leaf node corresponds to a class label
   • the root node and each intermediate node corresponds to a decision rule.


• For a given datum, the classification process starts from the root node and
  eventually arrives a leaf node.

• Potential advantages: classification results are interpretable.

                                                                                17
Decision Trees
                                        Color？                          Top-Down
                                                                       Classification        level 0

               Green                        Yellow               Red

                Size？                   Shape？                   Size？                       level 1


                                        Round                                    Small
  Big           Medium Small                       Long     Medium

  Watermelon   Apple   Grape      Size？            Banana      Apple      Taste？             level 2


                          Big              Small
                                                                        甜                酸

                               Pomelo     Lemon                         Cherry     Grape     level 3
                                                                                                       18
How to construct a DT?
• Objective function: Impurity of the leaf nodes, i.e., how much training data
  from different classes would fall into the same leaf node?

• There are lots of choices to measure the impurity:


Entropy

Variance

Misclassification rate


                                                                                 19
How to construct a DT?
Training methods: Heuristic Search (Tree Search)

1. Start from the root, keep searching for a rule to branch a node.

2. At each node, select the rule that leads to the most significant decrease in
   impurity (similar to gradient descent).



3. When the process terminates, assign class label to the leaf nodes.
   •   label a leaf node with the label of majority instances that fall into it.

                                                                                   20
Control the Model Complexity
• The construction process will not terminate automatically unless each leaf
  node only contains instances from 1 class, possibly only 1 instances.
   • Overfitting


• Thus complexity of the tree needs to be controlled, approaches include:
   • Setting the maximum height of the tree (early stopping)
   • Introduce the tree height (or any other complexity measure as a penalty)
   • Fully grow the tree first, and then prune it (post processing)




                                                                                21
Summary
• Learning approaches for 3 types of model representation.

   • SVM – Quadratic Programming

   • NN – Gradient Descent (Back Propagation Algorithm)

   • DT – Heuristic Search (a specialized version)




                                                             22
To be continued




                  23
